[UNIT 4] re-release VLMs unit for 2025 (#245)
huggingface/smol-course: units/en/unit4/1.md

# Introduction to Vision Language Models

Vision Language Models (VLMs) can understand both images and text simultaneously, enabling tasks like image captioning, visual question answering, and multimodal reasoning. Just like LLMs, VLMs are trained to predict the next token — but with the added ability to process visual information. For example, [`HuggingFaceTB/SmolVLM-Base`](https://huggingface.co/HuggingFaceTB/SmolVLM-Base) is a base VLM model, while [`HuggingFaceTB/SmolVLM`](https://huggingface.co/HuggingFaceTB/SmolVLM) is instruction-tuned for chat-like interactions with users.

In this unit, we will explore how these models are built, how they work, and, most importantly, how you can use and adapt them for your own projects.

<Tip>

> By the end of this unit, you’ll fine-tune a VLM using the same techniques you’ve already learned in previous units (like SFT). This course is *smol but fast*!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By the end of this unit, you’ll fine-tune a VLM using the same techniques you’ve already learned in previous units (like SFT). As ever, this unit is *smol but fast*!
```
